The President: As
Commander in Chief,
my highest priority is the
security of the American people.
And I've made it clear that
those who threaten the United
States will find no safe haven.
Thanks to our military and
counterterrorism professionals,
we took out Osama bin Laden,
much of al Qaeda's leadership
in Afghanistan and Pakistan,
and leaders of al Qaeda
affiliates in Yemen
and Somalia.
We've prevented
terrorist attacks,
saved American lives and made
our homeland more secure.
Today, the terrorist
threat is more diffuse,
from al Qaeda affiliates and
other extremists-like ISIL
in Syria and Iraq.
As I said this week, our
intelligence community has
not yet detected specific ISIL
plots against our homeland.
But its leaders have repeatedly
threatened the United States.
And, if left unchecked, these
terrorists could pose a growing
threat beyond the Middle East,
including to the United States.
So we're staying vigilant.
And we're moving ahead with
our strategy to degrade
and ultimately destroy this
terrorist organization.
To meet a threat like
this, we have to be smart.
We have to use our power wisely.
And we have to avoid the
mistakes of the past.
American military
power is unmatched,
but this can't be
America's fight alone.
And the best way to defeat a
group like ISIL isn't by sending
large numbers of American combat
forces to wage a ground war
in the heart of the Middle East.
That wouldn't serve
our interests.
In fact, it would only risk
fueling extremism even more.
What's needed now is a targeted,
relentless counterterrorism
campaign against ISIL that
combines American air power,
contributions from
allies and partners,
and more support to forces
that are fighting these
terrorists on the ground.
And that's exactly
what we're doing.
We're moving ahead with our
campaign of airstrikes against
these terrorists, and we're
prepared to take action
against ISIL in Syria as well.
The additional American forces
I've ordered to Iraq will
help Iraqi and Kurdish
forces with the training,
intelligence and equipment
they need to take the fight
to these terrorists
on the ground.
We're working with Congress to
expand our efforts to train
and equip the Syrian opposition.
We'll continue to strengthen
our defenses here at home.
And we'll keep providing the
humanitarian relief to help
Iraqi civilians who have
been driven from their
homes and who remain in
extreme danger.
Because we're leading
the right way,
more nations are
joining our coalition.
This week, Arab nations agreed
to strengthen their support
for the new Iraqi government and
to do their part in the fight
against ISIL, including aspects
of the military campaign.
Saudi Arabia will join
the effort to help train
and equip moderate Syrian
opposition forces.
And retired Marine general John
Allen-who during the Iraq war
worked with Sunnis in Iraq as
they fought to reclaim their
communities from terrorists-will
serve as our special envoy
to help build and coordinate
our growing coalition.
Today, every American can be
proud of our men and women
in uniform who are
serving in this effort.
When our airstrikes helped break
the siege of the Iraqi town
of Amerl, one Kurdish fighter
on the ground said,
"It would have been
absolutely impossible
without the American planes."
One resident of that city
said-"thank you, America."
Today we're showing the world
the best of American leadership.
We will protect our people.
We will stand with partners
who defend their countries
and rally other nations to
meet a common threat.
And here at home-thirteen
years after our country was
attacked-we continue to
stand tall and proud.
Because we're Americans.
We don't give in to fear.
We carry on.
And we will never waver in the
defense of the country we love.